We're talking to Mark Hopin in the opening.
I'm sorry, what did you just say about... I think it was about 81.
That was when I had a uniformity, almost uniformity anyway, practically uniformity of acceptance and lionization by the ruler, such as it was, and
Dudley East was going for $7,500 at that point.
And then after Winter's Tale came out, and although I got magnificent reviews for Winter's Tale, mixed, there's something like that, but a lot of super wonderful.
The fact was that at that point, I no longer was nominated for any prizes ever again.
was completely spit out by whatever the powers that be are, and the way that it embraced me so warmly just a few years before.
I saw you have a Carnegie Hall, and it's like sealed.
You were down.
And the price of the East went from $75 to $100.
At that point, after the article by Chris Buckley in the New York Times, which announced that I was a Republican, the price went down to about $20, $25.
And for Ellis Island in 1981, I received it.
I basically remembered that.
I'm sorry.
I got nominated for the National Book Award.
I got the creative role.
I was given a Guggenheim scholarship.
I was nominated for the Penn Faulkner Award.
And actually, at that time, they gave five, and then they gave the first card.
So in a sense, I got one, but it wasn't the first card.
They'd rather get the first card.
And I remember one person who looked at me at the restaurant during his dinner and sort of winked to indicate that he had fun at the ring.
But anyway.
Now this is for the Madison Book Award?
No, that was at Penn Park.
Penn Park, yeah.
But all of the awards.
Is this for Winter's Tale?
No, for Alice Island.
OK, I'm sorry, I'm... Alice Island got all these awards.
That's the book that I...
Lots of reviews.
That was what I suppose Woody Allen would call the brain cancer.
And then Winchester House came out and it got one of the most incredible reviews ever on the front page of the United Times, which was the quote that I used.
What did he say?
Thank you very much.
While I get looking, I'm going to just check to make sure.
We're on it again.
Do you mind talking about this at all, or this is going to be tough?
I just wanted to mention it to you.
It just came up in conversation.
I'm not particularly... I'd rather not, really, because it's that sort of... I don't know.
Dustin Hoffman complaining that he didn't get an Oscar.
I don't sense that you're complaining about receiving awards.
What I sense is that
You're pointing out a case study.
If your politics are disclosed, it's very easy to be identified as something that had nothing to do with your art.
Is that what you're suggesting?
Exactly.
It's brought up by the fact that you mentioned that it's of the East Coast.
Yeah.
In fact, it's still in there in pencils, and we'll see.
I pulled it out.
That's the only reason I brought that up.
If I thought about that every day, I would be in trouble.
But do you set, I think I'll mention a question, that you have been abandoned by the literary establishment?
No, I've abandoned them.
Really, it was a case of preemption.
And why is that?
I don't know.
I just don't like what has happened.
In general, I started off in a different time.
Standards were different, expectations were different.
And I knew then that it was all coming to an end.
What was coming to an end?
the wealth, the type of, the kind of literary life that existed in America, and perhaps even in the world, that it's going with.
And I'm the preacher of that hero.
Could you just describe it a bit to me?
If you look at it from, let's say, three,
three points of view.
If you look at academic commentary on literature, in my day, the... Well, your day being what?
Meaning what?
Previous... How old would you know?
I'd say you're 40... How old would you know?
Well, we're 48.
48.
I'm just, uh, 48.
We're in the same generation.
Prior to 1965, I went to college.
I was concerned with
with duties and literature.
And I was concerned with the way someone would write, the depth of understanding.
And now, in academia, that's not the case.
They have been taken over by lunatics who judge books by political criteria, by feminist criteria, by who wrote it, the race and sex and class and who wrote it.
by economic criteria, a whole bunch of very odd theory of deconstructionism to the utilitarianism.
That's fine.
I just don't want to miss any of this.
It's too bad.
All these different theories and approaches that are collectively more or less the grand illusion of science.
That's the academic skill.
And that's where one could
I look forward to an anticipate of hope that an academic with a deep interest and understanding in the work would analyze the right book value that you might be taught in colleges because of the quality of the work.
Now, it is in my view of something that's .
That's one factor.
Then there's a second factor, another angle, which is the publishing industry itself.
in what I call my day, in the times that I regret in the past, was self-discipline to the extent that people weren't so eager and so desperate for success and sales that they would jump out and push out anything, anything they agreed.
If you look at the best solos now, you'll see the honors, there are all kinds of things which never could have been published in the 50s.
but it's because there was a code of honor in publishing.
No, people would not publish.
Is it pandering now?
There's the argument where you say, if someone says the publisher is responsible because this is what they give the public, then the other person will say, well, that's what the public wants.
And then if someone says this is what the public wants, then someone says that that's what they're given by the public.
And it's both.
It is a collaboration.
And both of people who read these things, it's like daytime television.
I have a hunger for certain kind of television.
I don't have it because we don't have ourselves.
Sometimes I turn on the television, I get regular old daytime televisions, when I'm really looking for some news that's wrong, but it is now, and I see things on daytime televisions that are really indicative of the fall wrong.
You see, I saw on a daytime television show a woman who, a teenage girl, a girl, 17 or so, who was pregnant,
and came on the show to argue the point that she had a right to do anything she wanted while she was carrying a baby, including taking drugs and drinking and smoking.
And she was on the show, popping a cigarette deliberately at the show.
Now what she was doing was actually humiliating, probably with U.N., her stand-alone child.
in a studio with a television camera going in front of the audience.
It used to be like Rome, and the gladiators, or snuff films.
Snuff films, that's the matter.
It was a deal with demarcation, an absolute demarcation between, I don't know when it happened, sometime in the 60s, before or after.
They would not have had snuff films in 1965.
Snuff films being films where they kill people.
actually killed people.
And there was a snuff film that was shown in Times Square, the movie house in Times Square, until the protests shut it down, and the theater industry threw it out of the movie.
It was not shame, it was kind of shame, simply without present pressure.
But in the era that I was talking about, such things had been possible in America in the public discourse.
But then it became possible.
So publishing,
It has become much like the accidental side.
You cannot look to it for comfort or reassurance.
I can't look to it for what I once really wanted to look for.
I've made the best deal that I can make for myself.
I've tried deliberately to find a publisher who will support me, who reminds me of the older times and I've got one.
But others, in general, I knew there was a field in general, and it was absolutely terrible.
One thing, as a sideline, let me just mention one thing.
I found in the last, that the acceleration of this is geometrical.
It's not that kind of dramatic, it's geometrical.
It's fast, it goes, fast, it goes.
And it's very quickly descended into complete heart.
And I found in the past few years that there's a tendency
in both magazines and book publishing, for your work to be edited without your knowledge of participation.
And then they change it, and there it is, and you really haven't met that.
They go back to the books.
Fiction?
Yeah, and although I was lucky in that,
Some of these things I didn't catch until they were published in the magazine.
With the books, I catch them.
I've caught them.
But I don't want to get into the specifics of it.
And it does not have to do with my publishing.
It's hard work.
But I've had feelings with publishers in which I've had to have been lost in.
Because they want to change the content of the book.
In other words, what's happening is everything is a work for hire.
Except for once, I never did a work for hire.
Work for hire, do you mean doing something on assignment?
No.
A work for hire is where you don't hold a copyright.
They hold a copyright.
It's theirs.
You're just a, like a, like a, like a microphone.
Oh, no, no.
It was an article.
Oh, okay, okay.
And, in fact, that work for Hiring the Reading came out.
It was, it was something that, it was, it was actually from Time Magazine.
They wanted me to do an essay on the Statue of Liberty.
It was a lot of money involved.
It was $20,000 to do an essay.
They were very enthusiastic about it, and so was I because of the money involved.
And I said, I'll do it.
I'm fine.
I can give it to my apartment.
And then I came back to him and told him what I was going to do.
And it dropped me like a hot rock.
It's historically kind of cooperative.
I mean, they did that to Walker Evans and James A.D.
He didn't take it back.
I didn't know that, but they did it in his book, Let Us Now Praise the English Amendment, that was done on assignment for Fortune magazine.
And they just didn't like the tack that he took.
Well, they're right, and they didn't like tack.
I wanted to call the article The Statue of Iacocca because Lee Iacocca was
Oh, he was a major domo in that thing.
Yeah, he was using that thing too.
That's right, I'm just trying to make sure this microphone is pointing.
Put it this way, he got so much publicity out of that that the Statue of Liberty sort of faded into the background.
So I wanted to go to the Statue of Liberty.
But you see, Time, that whole reconstruction was corporate America.
Yeah.
And if you're taking a whack at that, Time Magazine, that's...
Whatever it was, I didn't have the quality time to survive.
And they said, well, you can't.
They said, you can't do that.
And I said, why not?
They said, you can't.
They said, okay.
Did you get a kill thing, just out of curiosity?
I don't remember.
Actually, I actually asked.
I think I did.
I worked for nothing.
Maybe I didn't.
Maybe I didn't even get far enough with it.
But anyway, the tendency now is to...
to treat a writer like an employee, and that there's no one, not no one, but fewer and fewer people respect the idea that what you're doing goes out over your name, and therefore you're choosing to have control.
And it's not a group and collaborative effort.
Now, incidentally, it's very interesting to mention that to me,
In schools, they now teach writers as a kind of group collective effort.
They do.
They have their textbooks, and they say, you have to get together, you have to brainstorm.
They call it the writing process.
You brainstorm, and then you talk about it with other people, decide what you're going to write, clear your idea.
Then you write it, and you submit it to your peers.
It's sort of like a Maoist approach.
And that's how they teach writing in schools now.
The only collaborative effort, as far as I know, that's ever produced a work of literature is the King James Bible.
I mean, that's about, you know, the effort of the Bible.
I mean, that's just many authors, really.
Yeah, but King James was, you know, where they did grow and hire poets and maybe Shakespeare and all the others, and they did do the literary work.
I can't imagine that they're teaching this.
That's how they teach it.
So you must have read Harold Bloom's book.
No, no, I haven't.
Really?
I think you'd enjoy it.
It sounds like the Western canon and the same publisher.
No, I haven't read it.
And I, for reasons that are often left.
Okay.
But, and then I won't even discuss.
But I haven't read it.
I don't care.
Well, I haven't read it.
All right, so let's get back to the circle there.
So you have the academic, the scholars, who, of course, there are exceptions, but in general, the point of deception is a little bit more abstract.
And you have the publishing, which is more or less more abstract.
And as a subtext in the academic study, you have the schools where they're teaching them to write collaboratively and collectively
and analyze things according to the principles of deconstruction and race, class, and society, etc.
And then there's a publishing industry which will, does anything so about, and has no standards left.
It will publish just anything, period.
And there's no, it's as if the publishing industry doesn't have its hands shaping the result product.
The product is shaped purely by
by a kind of a rush to do it, to get something out and see itself.
And by the way, you can see that probably that's how it's done compared to what it used to be like, because there's probably many, many, many times more books being published with a scattershot approach.
And with a scattershot approach, you don't have to think about it as much.
You just sort of see that and see which one
They don't even have copy editors anymore.
And they don't have copy editors anymore.
Yeah, absolutely.
And people, when they do get copy editors, I find copy editors copy editing my stuff, which, of course, everyone is editing.
I like good editing, but frequently one is editing and one finds that, and I'm not just talking about anything in particular, but just in general, I write books
articles, free paper articles, introductions, all kinds of things.
You get people who don't know them, or even how to spell.
That's not such a great spell.
And they correct you wrongly.
And they don't know when you win them, but there was a wrong one.
So then there's the third part of it, which is
which is the public itself, which has advised books, but I find myself communicating to academics.
I find that I get my reaction from a somewhat familiar thing, which is individuals who have left.
They sort of sit there with individual violence in this life.
Are there a lot of them, at least?
There are a lot of them.
but they're not supporting them just by definition.
They really can't be.
Just as I would.
I don't like joining organizations except for specific reasons.
Maybe joining the National Authority or joining the North Capitol, but I don't like moving schools and working in the fields.
So, there are exceptions.
And there are a great number of things that they are
I think it used to be that people who had their own image feature used to sell a life of their own.
And now it's less and less.
It's television, because of the pressures, because of the politicization of things that should not be politicized.
And by that, it is the world's art.
for some extent, the world of the family, and the world of everything.
Comics out there with everything too much of the books out there in a very destructive fashion.
But also, the way people look at literature.
There's less chance for an individual to survive.
But anyway, this is a very negative assessment.
I believe it's the truth.
And that's what I mean when I say that the terms have changed.
Is this anger?
Are you angry?
Do you have any sense of anger?
No.
What it is, it's sort of like, it's as if you started to play the game and then they changed the rules.
You know, that's what happened to Mark.
That's what happened to me.
They'll say, okay, I will.
I'll play that in the rules.
But I won't do that.
Not because I'm particularly stubborn, but simply because I don't like you to do it.
What do you think they would like you to do?
Who?
They.
Oh, gosh.
I don't think they'd like me to disappear.
Really?
Yeah.
But other than that, I spoke with everyone who likes to be kinder.
People love Congress.
Let's say that, okay, fine.
So you saw your soul and you can break it.
What would you produce?
I mean, what would you think they would like to see you produce?
I don't know if I'm... I don't know where we're going with the discussion, but I don't think it's interesting.
Well, first I'd be disqualified by the facts of my book.
I don't know what's a... Which facts in particular?
What's a white man's point to produce?
I don't know.
What's a successful white division?
Especially because I could fight and push in 50.
Yeah.
And I'm on the other side of 50 right now.
What was this world that I'm talking about?
What did they want from the fighting?
I don't know.
I don't care.
But I suppose some kind of conversion or repentance.
Are you familiar with the guy named Tim Wegener?
I did a P.O.
interview with him.
He was up in New Hampshire.
His new novel, Novemberfest, is precisely about a guy, a white, middle-aged guy in his 50s, being faced with being too normal, coming too straightforward.
Interesting.
I should send you a copy of that.
He articulates many of the same things.
Go ahead.
I don't even like that.
We should even believe it all the time.
That's right.
Because I don't like the idea that I'm a victim.
I don't consider myself a victim.
Is that the thing?
I'm not a victim.
And I don't like the idea that, for instance, there's a reaction to feminism.
Men's clothes.
People make things.
Do you want to join a ministry?
I'd rather die than join a ministry.
I'd literally rather die than join a ministry.
Do you remember Leonard Michael's little novel, The Men's Club?
I remember when it came out, yeah.
I remember that the New York Times would kill him.
I mean, the New York Times Magazine asked me to write their column, or to contribute to their column called About Men.
And I said, I won't do that.
And they were like, About Men?
That's right.
You said that you write a newspaper for whom?
The Wall Street Journal.
You do?
Oh, yeah.
How often?
Well, it's an occasional call.
Really?
Oh, yeah.
See, I got some background to get here.
This was on the day that the Congress came out.
It's about Haiti.
It's about diversity.
It's about security and policy.
This is about a lecture called Against the Dehumanization of Art.
So you have, obviously, without having read these pretty strong political views then, I guess.
Oh, yeah.
So do you sense then that because, you know, even though you're two different people,
That your fiction is going to be maligned because of a perception of yours as a certain point?
Well, wait a minute.
Let's not really finish.
I can't think two things away.
This is my Achilles heel.
But I didn't do the headline.
That's Why Bush Will Win by Mark Halpern, October 27, 1992, Wall Street Journal.
On the other hand, that's the only thing.
And this is you, too?
I dodged the draft, and I was wrong, October 16, 1992?
That was the speech that I got at West Point.
Did you dodge the draft?
No, that was the headline, too.
I didn't really dodge the draft, and I didn't serve in the American Army.
Anyway, that was about the Republican Convention.
Kids can kill you, can't they?
Headlines.
People think that the author writes the headline, too, which is
That's fine.
That's on the New Hampshire primary.
Are you enjoying your journalism?
Oh, yeah.
This is Yugoslavia, a military analysis.
That's a nuclear unsigned Victorian journal.
There's the Israeli military.
This is the Gulf War analysis.
Gulf War analysis.
So you've been doing this since... Gulf War analysis.
At least four years.
See this?
Iraq, the military analysis.
This was Friday, December 7, 1990.
If you read this, you'll see that this is the history of the war, but before the war happened.
Did you project that they'd let Saddam Hussein?
No, because what I did was I urged them to go all the way back.
But that's the only thing that the end game, they didn't do.
the way I told them to.
Not that they did what I told them to, but the endgame didn't come out as I predicted.
And they were reading it.
I know that they were reading it.
Bush's budget deal.
This was predicting the Soviet coup, and it wasn't accurate.
October 2, 1990.
This was about hostage-taking and war crime, and shortly after, two weeks after,
In fact, they did what I suggested.
I wrote this actually the day that saw him.
And everyone was saying, oh, we missed nothing to do.
We can't do anything.
My gulf pieces were the most precise and predictive.
This was predicting Gorbachev's demise and the rise of the right in Russia.
It's been about five years you've been doing this, no?
I don't know, did that say 86?
I blew it on the 92 election.
And I was doing it just because I sort of fell on my sword.
But you predicted Bush would win re-election, right?
Yeah.
Well, I knew that it was a tight one, but it was very close to that point.
It was pretty much harder, though, I think, until the end.
I don't know if it was close.
He had a surge at the end.
This one, when Bush was behind in the polls by
at the Democratic Convention.
Yeah, that was funny, though.
Many, many, many, many, many points.
Yeah, but nobody, everyone was saying... He closed that in a day.
No, no, no, it took more than a day, but at that point, I was the only journalist who would say that.
And then there's this... Are you enjoying this as much as your fiction?
Yeah, I do.
See, I mean, and it goes back.
We're back in 85, 85.
Well, that's just like 10 years then, doesn't it?
Yeah.
It is 10 years.
The first newspaper article was in the 1980s at the Times.
But, really, I mean... For 10 years, isn't it?
For the interviews, which is it?
despite this, with some people's contention, I cannot tell anything but the truth in an interview.
I can make up stories for books, but when you think an interviewer comes, I'm not politically a politician.
And if you ask me a question, it's absolutely a straight answer.
Even if it's damaging, as has happened at a time,
You see, it's interesting.
I've been reading books professionally for a long time.
Maybe I'm naive, and I don't read, I confess, I don't get the journal out of it.
It's as great a newspaper as it is.
But now that you mention it, I do remember the Christopher Buckley piece daily.
And so, gee, Mark Coughlin, the Republicans.
I forgot about it.
I continue to read you with pleasure, and I am able, you know, my politics are quite irrelevant, you know.
I think probably... And my politician on the stand was Jane Files, and I was mad at him for Vietnam stuff.
Oh, I continue to read that.
I served in the aircraft carrier in Vietnam twice, and I mean... Nonetheless, she's a great actor.
That's funny, but it's one thing to say the war is wrong.
It's another thing to call for the... She went beyond this.
I mean, I knew pilots, you know.
I checked out.
I mean, she called for that.
I mean, she advocated the killing of Americans into that.
And they continue to commit me.
Never forgive her for that.
But she's a wonderful actress, I think.
Yeah.
I mean, she's a terrific actress.
I wouldn't boycott the film.
But that's, and I think that that's, unfortunately, now, that kind of attitude is
People don't separate things properly.
So this apparently is a problem then, I guess.
No.
You aren't perceived as politically correct.
That's not a problem.
That's an art.
And it's not a problem.
But I mean in terms of the literary, quotation marks, establishment.
You said that they abandoned you and you abandoned them.
That's true.
But you also suggest that this has damaged the reception that your books get and receive.
I think so.
But they're not reviewed on their merits, on their limiting merits.
Well, I think that's absolutely true.
And I guess maybe this might make the departure too.
That's absolutely something to mention in the New York Times book review.
Well, Becky's gone now, too, so that might help.
That's not the record for me, too.
I mean, I've said this many times.
In the front page review that I got for Soldier of the Great War, the first sentence said that I'm a Republican.
I wrote a book about an Italian in the First World War.
And on the front page of the New York Times, the review of the first sentence, it points out the fact that I'm a Republican.
What about the review?
Thomas G. Miller.
You know, I'm not making it up.
Did he stab it to the book?
No, he didn't break it up.
But, let me just read through the... Oh, no.
Don't worry, we are going to talk about the book.
Well, let me come here so I can get it on the table.
In the late 20th century, where do you fit a writer who has described himself as a, quote, Roosevelt Republican, end quote, Teddy Roosevelt, that is?
He has a big stick.
That's a first sentence.
Sure, that's May 5th, 91.
It's a first sentence.
Is that a copy, by the way?
Is that a copy of that review?
Do you have multiple copies of that?
I can't give, I can make a copy of it.
I use it for record, but would you like to help you?
I'll get one from Duke.
That's fine.
If you had one, I'd take it, but I'll... I have access.
No problem.
I mean, my question that I ask is in my Paris Review interview, which actually, if you want to... All this... Everything that you're talking about, you can get in condensed written form in Paris Review interview, which is there...
Here it is.
I'm sorry, I can't give it to you.
That's fine.
I can give you a copy, maybe, if I can find a copy of it.
Would you like it?
Yeah, I'd love that.
Maybe you can mail it to me.
I'll give you my card.
I might have an extra copy.
Let me give you an extra copy.
Or you can let me borrow it and copy it, and I'd mail it back to you, you know?
Let me look and see if I can.
Well, let's just turn abruptly.
As I said, I just want to finish.
I said, in New York Times, in a review of Ancient Evenings, would they mention the first sentence of Norman Miller as a Democrat?
But, you know, honestly, I'm not, we're just, we've got economists, but it's not what I'm particularly concerned about.
Okay.
Well, let's just turn.
How many years is this between novels now, or is this about four years, right?
Yes, exactly.
So is there any apprehension on your part about the reception of the book?
I mean, I read it, and it's delightful.
Apprehension.
Apprehension, yeah.
I mean, we've actually spent an hour quite unexpectedly talking
And it's my fault, I guess, this following, because it's a fascinating discussion.
But about things that have nothing to do with a literary work.
Right.
Apprehension, no.
Absolutely no apprehension whatsoever.
You can't.
Please don't follow me.
But frankly, I don't give a fuck.
My language is fine.
I can't close you.
Don't worry about it.
That's just messy or anything.
That's fine.
To go back to the very first thing you said, I mean, that you came from a time and your heritage is where beauty and literature is what concerned you.
Let's talk about that.
I mean, this is your mandate, I gather, to try and produce in your work is what you...
hope to be duty.
I mean, that's a general throw-out statement.
Maybe you can take it anywhere you want to.
That's why I'm in business.
To make that which is beautiful.
And that's why I do this.
That's what Kim said.
That's it.
And this book is not the same as the previous book.
in a degree.
The same in what respect?
The same in your respect.
The other one was, the last one, Soul to the Great World was like the main course.
This is kind of like a dessert.
I eased up a bit.
It's more contemporary.
I haven't finished it.
Forgive me.
Nonetheless.
But I shall try it to the wedding of the piece.
It's the same, it's much the same, only it's just lighter and toned.
It's funny.
The other one's not primarily funny.
No.
The last one.
This one's funny.
Where does this character come from, I guess?
From Rossini.
Yeah.
I mean, where does he come from?
I don't mean literally, but I mean...
How did one create a character with so many facets?
I don't know.
You know, I'm rather amazed that you hadn't asked me about coffee.
I'm an old label officer.
I can't believe it.
Do you not drink coffee, by the way?
Do you detest coffee?
I've never had a cup of coffee in my life, but I'm not like my protagonist.
I assumed that you didn't drink coffee.
I assumed that this was an expression of your own.
No, it's not.
The other thing is that these days, very often writers are so impoverished that all they can do is put their own little political program or particular obsession, whether it be politics or feminism or race or patriotic coffee.
Essentially, they've subordinated the art of fiction to whatever program they believe in.
And I don't believe in that, and I haven't done it.
So this is not a diatribe against coffee, although the character doesn't buy coffee.
I don't like it.
And it's easy for me to write his diatribes.
but I don't believe that coffee causes cancer.
Well, I probably may.
But even if it does, there's obviously not much of a quarrel.
See, I'm a very, I suspend things.
It doesn't bother me one way or the other what the guy thinks about.
I mean, I personally can't live without it, you know.
I go the other way.
I need caffeine in the morning.
I can drink a pot of coffee by noon, you know.
One of the reasons I had to use your facility so quickly is I had a, you know, a good sized mug of it on the way out.
Did you drive it?
Yeah.
Oh, you're hooked.
Oh, I am hooked, but it's better than being hooked on tobacco, you know, or anything else.
Sure.
It's, you know, the caffeine is a drug that you contact yourself.
You get more and more and more.
If you take too much in too short a period, it can really have very deleterious effects.
It can kill you.
For instance, about 45 cups of coffee, you're going.
But you wouldn't drink 45 cups of coffee all at once, would you?
No, I don't think so.
But I'd probably drink six or eight cups in a day.
I'd have a lot.
That's heavy.
And when I was on the ship, God knows how much I'd drink, because your hours were crazy.
You'd stand to watch.
You know, four to eight, wide shot, back in the air, just to be drinking coffee at times?
My question about any kind of Japanese, whether coffee, tea, or you still need, is if your heart says it wants to rest, and it wants to beat at 60 beats a minute, and you don't give it the message that it should beat more by exercising, by moving around,
Rather, you're sitting here working at your desk or something, and your heart says, I want to rest now.
You want to go 60 beats a minute.
You drink coffee, and the caffeine chemically makes the heart beat at 90 beats a minute so that you feel better.
It's because it's almost like you're exercising.
Is that a good thing?
I mean, can that possibly be good for the heart?
Isn't that sort of like waking you up in the middle of the night when you're deep asleep and saying, okay, do this, do that.
I know that I'm a deadline kind of a person, and I really do.
I need, even if they're imposed, I don't know if I impose them on myself, I need just a little bit of pressure to produce work.
And coffee seems to be part of the way I focus my energies on working.
I find I don't drink as much coffee when I'm not working.
I don't know if that means anything, but... I just wonder about how... I don't think it has much to do with cancer, but I really wonder about the heart.
I mean, after all, industrial democracy, heart diseases.
Of course, smoking and pollution and all these other things.
I wonder about... I used to smoke cigars.
And I gave them up when it was absolutely apparent that I had a dependence on them, you know.
I couldn't wait to get out.
I was like running away.
You couldn't smoke anywhere, you know.
So I couldn't wait to get in my car and drive to work and light up the cigar, you know.
And I'd smoke them for 20 years.
And I just gave them up one day about eight years ago and haven't touched them since.
You know, my father did exactly that.
He smoked for...
60 years.
I stopped on a Christmas day.
I remember my brother gave me a nice Havana snack with breakfast dinner at his house and I said, this is my last one.
And he smokes, you know, and I appreciated it.
And you just... And I did.
Yeah, and I have to say, you know, I can't, I don't think about them.
Thank you.
I'll call it.
I can call it.
I just request it.
That's fine.
I do the same thing with Dietrich.
I was drinking a lot of diet caffeine tea coke.
I was drinking it like water.
And my wife said to me, you're an addict.
And I said, I am.
I just want to tell her to stop.
I haven't had it in a year.
So you're, let's start talking about books and literature now.
If we can.
By the way, everything that we talked about,
He's right in there.
I'm sorry, I didn't know that piece.
You don't mind if I use some of the things out of there?
No.
I wanted that to be the relaxed, sort of contentious type of thing.
I didn't know about this, by the way, so this happened at this point.
Trust me on this.
No, it developed out of a sound organization, and I'm professional enough to know that something's happening here, and just let it go, and you just follow the lead.
Yeah, I just let it play, and it is fascinating, but still, it's not the lead for me.
You know, I do write a literary poem that's published now in 22 newspapers, and I syndicated it myself, and I'm largely university, which does not have to be on tape.
Yeah, but...
So you're 48 or about to be 48.
You've got, you've had collections of stories, what, four novels, three novels now?
Two, Fire, Fire, Two's Tale, Sword of the Great War is the fourth novel.
Yeah.
And I've had two collections of stories and one children's book.
Which I have with me, by the way.
I have two girls.
Signed it for me.
I was in 89 and I've been waiting to have
That's a rare one.
There are very few that both he and I have thought about book stuff.
I mean, there are billions of them.
They printed, I think they printed 300,000 of them.
It's a wonderful book.
And 200,000,000 sold.
But I know what, 200,000,000 sold.
They had a lot left over.
Oh, that was years ago.
But I signed, well, I must have signed 1,000, 2,000 of them.
And he probably signed that many, too.
But it was very rare that we had visited one person, which was... In fact, he signed a poster for me, which I have in my younger guys.
Which poster was it?
This one, my poster.
Delightful.
He was a good interviewer.
That was an interesting collaboration, wasn't it?
He's so wonderful.
He has a temperament of a saint.
He is very gentle.
Even, gentle, having been not disturbed by him.
This is a guy who has tremendous, tremendous benevolence, just a wild brand.
You know, it's interesting, going back to how we started, his art certainly is compatible with your vision of literature, isn't it?
Very traditional.
beautiful.
What it is, I remember I mentioned something, I mentioned, as my old English teacher used to say, people who live their own lives, a life of their own, they live a life of their own, meaning that they're not, essentially I suppose what you're saying, what we're saying is they're not externally motivated.
And Chris is the perfect paradigm of that.
And what you get along with that is the ability to concentrate very deeply
That's what I do too.
I concentrate very deeply on the subject at hand, on the question at hand, and I go where I go according to where it seems I should go, not according to external stimuli.
That's where the trouble we were talking about arises, the trouble at the beginning of the interview.
That's where I have
because they don't operate according to external stimuli.
I operate according to internal stimuli.
The funny thing about that is that if you carry that to an extreme, then you have total dysfunction in the old student.
For instance, a psychotic doesn't react to stimuli.
It just goes straight track, whatever it takes.
So that you have to learn to control
that your concentration otherwise would be lost in it.
So that you do have to learn to live in the world socially and pay some attention to these external stimuli.
But the way that you do it, you can shield what you're doing in your soul by being very protective of it.
And yet at the same time, if you don't want to completely derail and go off into obsession or insanity,
you have to also be aware of what's going on in the rest of the world.
So, to get back, so we said six books.
May I just... I'm sorry, I think it's done.
In the Amproof case, the protagonist, who has no name, whose name, the first name that we hear is Austin, which is not his name, but he is a very good example of carrying
Because anything is making sure.
What I'm talking about, almost actually beyond the limits, you see, you haven't finished the book, I don't know where you are in the book, but what he does is, he does carry it beyond the limits to the point where he eliminates everybody, to where he kills, to where he goes beyond the bounds.
Utrecht.
becomes criminal.
But when you finish it, you'll see that he has a very good reason to do so.
At many levels.
But that's essentially what I was talking about.
And I've been disturbed by the first part of the conversation thinking to myself, why?
Don't worry about it.
But I'm still thinking, what?
No, don't worry about it.
Again, we've got 800 words and 1,000 words.
I don't want to.
If my readers are interested in books,
My column appears in cities where people buy books.
That's really what we're here to do.
It's my job to read the book.
Forgive me if I don't ask you about the book.
I have a responsibility to read it and to interpret it.
There may be certain technical things.
Is this book driven by the character or by the story?
These are things they might like to talk about, but, you know, the other stuff is interesting, you know, but I've got to budget my words, and where that goes, and how much of it we'll use, we'll really pale.
No, no, I'm not trying to ask you to... You want to talk about the book, and I agree, I do too.
I was thinking about myself.
Why did I...
What is it?
Why did I fall into that?
And now I wanted to analyze it.
I didn't set it up because I didn't know it.
Trust me.
No, no, no.
Why did I do that?
And now I understand.
I think this is where you can tell me.